packages/docs-next/index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: Oruga
hero:
  name: Oruga
  image: 
    src: logo.png
  text: ''
  tagline: Oruga UI is like a caterpillar, minimal and yet functional. It's in your hands turning it into a butterfly
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /documentation/
    - theme: alt
      text: Changelog
      link: https://github.com/oruga-ui/oruga/releases
features:
  - icon: 👍
    title: CSS framework agnostic
    details: No dependency on a specific CSS framework/library but you can easily integrate the components with one of them because they are fully customizable in different ways
  - icon: 💪
    title: Components with steroids
    details: Most of the components aren't a simple wrapper of native elements but they add new and custom features
  - icon: 🪶
    title: Lightweight
    details: No other internal dependency (except for Vue.js) and import only components that you need
---
<div style="padding: 1rem; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center;">
  <Carbon />
</div>

Commit message:

docs: enhance docs-next
* update dependencies

* update docgen | update themes

* Remove unused banenr

* update ExampleViewer

* add eslint | update dependencies

* update component docs

* lint | refactoring

* update vitepress styles

* update docgen

* reafcator

* update theme components

* update examples

* update gitignore

* update docgen

* update styles

* refactoring

* update docgen style section

* update theme selector

* update home

* update inspector how to message

* update theme selector

* remove unwrapInjectedRef

* update ThemeSelector

* update header anchor

* themes rename value to key

* fix theme select bug

* update docs

* update docgen

* add theme variable docgen

* update documentation

* update docgen

* update documentation

* update documentation

* remove examples from sidebar

* fix typo

* fix typo

* add theme install

* fix typo

* update styling

* update introduction

* update docgen

* update theme selector

* add search

* update theme selector

* update carbon

* add community section

* update theme style p

* update theme-bootstrap

* update examples

* fix dead links

* update example viewer

* remove vitepress cache files

* add style block

* update examples

* update highlight

* update menu example

* update Menu doc

* update theme bootstrap

* update documentation setup

* update layout

* update theme-oruga

* Merge branch 'develop' into update-docs

packages/docs-next/index.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: Oruga
description: Oruga is a lightweight UI components library for Vue.js without CSS framework dependency.
head:
  - - meta
    - name: Oruga is a lightweight library of UI components for Vue.js without CSS framework dependency.
  - - meta
    - name: keywords
      content: oruga vue vuejs components ux ui css agnostic framework
hero:
  name: Oruga
  image: 
    src: logo.png
  text: ''
  tagline: Oruga UI is like a caterpillar, minimal and yet functional. It's in your hands turning it into a butterfly (🐛) => 🦋
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /documentation/
    - theme: alt
      text: Changelog
      link: https://github.com/oruga-ui/oruga/releases
features:
  - icon: 👍
    title: CSS framework agnostic
    details: No specific CSS framework/library dependency, but you can easily integrate one of them, as oruga is fully customisable in many ways.
  - icon: 💪
    title: Components with steroids
    details: Most components aren't just wrappers around native elements, but add new and custom functionality ahead.
  - icon: 🪶
    title: Lightweight
    details: Oruga has no other internal dependencies (except for Vue.js), and you can import only the components you need.
---
<div style="padding: 1rem; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center;">
  <Carbon />
</div>
