packages/docs/components/Radio.md, before:

# Radio

<div class="vp-doc">

> Select an option from a set

</div>

<div class="vp-example">

## Examples

<example-radio />

</div>

<div class="vp-example">

## Class props

<inspector-radio-viewer />

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Radio component

> Select an option from a set

```html
<o-radio></o-radio>
```

### Props

| Prop name          | Description                                                                         | Type                                                                   | Values                                                                          | Default                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| autocomplete       | Same as native autocomplete options to use in HTML5 validation                      | string                                                                 | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>radio: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;autocomplete: "off"<br>}</code> |
| customValidity     | Custom HTML 5 validation error to set on the form control                           | string \| ((currentValue: unknown, state: ValidityState) =&gt; string) | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'></code>                                                                                              |
| disabled           | Same as native disabled                                                             | boolean                                                                | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                         |
| id                 | Same as native id. Also set the for label for o-field wrapper - default is an uuid. | string                                                                 | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>useId()</code>                                                                                       |
| label              | Input label, unnecessary when default slot is used                                  | string                                                                 | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| v-model            | The input value state, use v-model to make it two-way binding                       | unknown                                                                | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| name               | Same as native name                                                                 | string                                                                 | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| nativeValue        | Same as native value                                                                | unknown                                                                | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| override           | Override existing theme classes completely                                          | boolean                                                                | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| required           | Same as native required                                                             | boolean                                                                | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                         |
| size               | Size of the control                                                                 | string                                                                 | `small`, `medium`, `large`                                                      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>radio: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;size: undefined<br>}</code>     |
| useHtml5Validation | Enable html 5 native validation                                                     | boolean                                                                | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>{<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;useHtml5Validation: true<br>}</code>   |
| variant            | Color of the control                                                                | string                                                                 | `primary`, `info`, `success`, `warning`, `danger`, `and any other custom color` | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>radio: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;variant: undefined<br>}</code>  |

### Events

| Event name         | Properties                                                       | Description                     |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| update:model-value | **value** `T` - updated modelValue prop                          | modelValue prop two-way binding |
| input              | **value** `T` - input value<br/>**event** `Event` - native event | on input change event           |
| focus              | **event** `Event` - native event                                 | on input focus event            |
| blur               | **event** `Event` - native event                                 | on input blur event             |
| invalid            | **event** `Event` - native event                                 | on input invalid event          |

### Slots

| Name    | Description                               | Bindings |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------- |
| default | Override the label, default is label prop |          |

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Sass variables

<div class="theme-oruga">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                     | Default                                |
| --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| $radio-active-background-color    | $primary                               |
| $radio-checked-box-shadow-length  | 0 0 0.5em                              |
| $radio-checked-box-shadow-opacity | 0.8                                    |
| $radio-box-shadow                 | $control-box-shadow                    |
| $radio-disabled-opacity           | var(--#{$prefix}base-disabled-opacity) |
| $radio-label-padding              | 0 0 0 0.5em                            |
| $radio-margin-sibiling            | 0.5em                                  |
| $radio-size                       | 1rem                                   |
| $radio-line-height                | 1.25                                   |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_radio.scss)

</div>
<div class="theme-bulma">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bulma](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bulma)_

| SASS Variable                  | Default               |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------- |
| $radio-colors                  | var.$colors           |
| $radio-active-background-color | css.getVar("primary") |
| $radio-border-color            | css.getVar("grey")    |
| $radio-size                    | 1.25em                |
| $radio-shadow                  | css.getVar("shadow")  |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bulma/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_radio.scss)

</div>
<div class="theme-bootstrap">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bootstrap](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap)_

<p>The theme does not have any custom variables for this component.</p>
</div>

</div>

Commit message:

docs: improve examples and add explanations  (#1174)
* docs: update dropdown docs

* docs: update button docs

* docs: update autocomplete docs

* docs: update checkbox docs

* docs: update collapse docs

* docs: update carousel docs

* docs: update field docs

* docs: update icon docs

* docs: update input docs

* docs: update loading docs

* docs: update menu docs

* docs: update modal docs

* docs: update notification docs

* docs: update pagination docs

* docs: update radio docs

* docs: update sidebar docs

* docs: update loading docs

* docs: update slider docs

* docs: update steps docs

* docs: update switch docs

* docs: update tabs docs

* docs: update taginput docs

* docs: update tooltip docs

* docs: update upload docs

* docs: update table docs

* docs: update datepicker docs

* docs: update datetimepicker docs

* docs: update timepicker docs

* docs: update inspectors

* docs: update components example readme

packages/docs/components/Radio.md, after:

# Radio

<div class="vp-doc">

The **Radio** input component uses [HTML's native radio inputs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/radio) to allow a user to select one value from a set of options.
The component supports the W3C ARIA APG [Radio Group Pattern](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/radio/).
Use it with the Field component to access all the functionalities.

</div>

<div class="vp-example">

## Examples

<example-radio />

</div>

<div class="vp-example">

## Class props

<inspector-radio-viewer />

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Radio component

> Select an option from a set of options.

```html
<o-radio></o-radio>
```

### Props

| Prop name          | Description                                                                         | Type                                                                   | Values                                                                          | Default                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| autocomplete       | Same as native autocomplete options to use in HTML5 validation                      | string                                                                 | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>radio: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;autocomplete: "off"<br>}</code> |
| customValidity     | Custom HTML 5 validation error to set on the form control                           | string \| ((currentValue: unknown, state: ValidityState) =&gt; string) | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'></code>                                                                                              |
| disabled           | Same as native disabled                                                             | boolean                                                                | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                         |
| id                 | Same as native id. Also set the for label for o-field wrapper - default is an uuid. | string                                                                 | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>useId()</code>                                                                                       |
| label              | Input label, unnecessary when default slot is used                                  | string                                                                 | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| v-model            | The input value state, use v-model to make it two-way binding                       | unknown                                                                | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| name               | Same as native name                                                                 | string                                                                 | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| nativeValue        | Same as native value                                                                | unknown                                                                | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| override           | Override existing theme classes completely                                          | boolean                                                                | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                     |
| required           | Same as native required                                                             | boolean                                                                | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                         |
| size               | Size of the control                                                                 | string                                                                 | `small`, `medium`, `large`                                                      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>radio: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;size: undefined<br>}</code>     |
| useHtml5Validation | Enable html 5 native validation                                                     | boolean                                                                | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>{<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;useHtml5Validation: true<br>}</code>   |
| variant            | Color of the control                                                                | string                                                                 | `primary`, `info`, `success`, `warning`, `danger`, `and any other custom color` | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>radio: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;variant: undefined<br>}</code>  |

### Events

| Event name         | Properties                                                       | Description                     |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| update:model-value | **value** `T` - updated modelValue prop                          | modelValue prop two-way binding |
| input              | **value** `T` - input value<br/>**event** `Event` - native event | on input change event           |
| focus              | **event** `Event` - native event                                 | on input focus event            |
| blur               | **event** `Event` - native event                                 | on input blur event             |
| invalid            | **event** `Event` - native event                                 | on input invalid event          |

### Slots

| Name    | Description                               | Bindings |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------- |
| default | Override the label, default is label prop |          |

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Sass variables

<div class="theme-oruga">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                     | Default                                |
| --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| $radio-active-background-color    | $primary                               |
| $radio-checked-box-shadow-length  | 0 0 0.5em                              |
| $radio-checked-box-shadow-opacity | 0.8                                    |
| $radio-box-shadow                 | $control-box-shadow                    |
| $radio-disabled-opacity           | var(--#{$prefix}base-disabled-opacity) |
| $radio-label-padding              | 0 0 0 0.5em                            |
| $radio-margin-sibiling            | 0.5em                                  |
| $radio-size                       | 1rem                                   |
| $radio-line-height                | 1.25                                   |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_radio.scss)

</div>
<div class="theme-bulma">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bulma](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bulma)_

| SASS Variable                  | Default               |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------- |
| $radio-colors                  | var.$colors           |
| $radio-active-background-color | css.getVar("primary") |
| $radio-border-color            | css.getVar("grey")    |
| $radio-size                    | 1.25em                |
| $radio-shadow                  | css.getVar("shadow")  |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bulma/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_radio.scss)

</div>
<div class="theme-bootstrap">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bootstrap](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap)_

<p>The theme does not have any custom variables for this component.</p>
</div>

</div>
