packages/docs/hacktoberfest/README.md, before:

---
title: Hacktoberfest
---
# Oruga participates in Hacktoberfest 2021 🎃

<img src="https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/_nuxt/img/divider.d80d9b6.svg">

[Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/) is a month-long celebration of open source software run by DigitalOcean. During the month of October, you're invited to join open-source software enthusiasts, beginners, and the developer community by contributing to open-source projects.

## How can I contribute to Oruga projects?

Hacktoberfest encourages participation in the open source community, which grows bigger every year. Support open source throughout October contributing to Oruga project!

<CarbonAds />

Discover our repositories, pick an issue and contribute to the betterment of Oruga via pull requests to complete the 2021 challenge and earn a [limited edition T-shirt](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/register).

<HFRepos filter_fullname="^(?!oruga-ui/demo).+$"/>

🐛 All projects are [available on GitHub](https://github.com/oruga-ui)

#

<img src="https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/_nuxt/img/divider.d80d9b6.svg" style="-webkit-transform: scaleX(-1);transform: scaleX(-1);">

<img src="/banner08CRredlogo.png" style="display: block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width: 50%;">

Commit message:

chore: add stay tuned section to HF

packages/docs/hacktoberfest/README.md, after:

---
title: Hacktoberfest
---
# Oruga participates in Hacktoberfest 2021 🎃

<img src="https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/_nuxt/img/divider.d80d9b6.svg">

[Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/) is a month-long celebration of open source software run by DigitalOcean. During the month of October, you're invited to join open-source software enthusiasts, beginners, and the developer community by contributing to open-source projects.

## How can I contribute to Oruga projects?

Hacktoberfest encourages participation in the open source community, which grows bigger every year. Support open source throughout October contributing to Oruga project!

<CarbonAds />

Discover our repositories, pick an issue and contribute to the betterment of Oruga via pull requests to complete the 2021 challenge and earn a [limited edition T-shirt](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/register).

<HFRepos filter_fullname="^(?!oruga-ui/demo).+$"/>

🎃 All projects are [available on GitHub](https://github.com/oruga-ui)

## Stay tuned!

New issues will be created during this month and properly labeled as well, so stay tuned!

Don't forget that we'll be very happy to help new devs approaching to hack and improve Oruga for the first time!
<br/>You can use [GitHub](https://github.com/oruga-ui/oruga), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/oruga_ui) and [Discord](https://discord.gg/RuKuBYN) to communicate with us!

Happy coding! 🐛 

#

<img src="https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/_nuxt/img/divider.d80d9b6.svg" style="-webkit-transform: scaleX(-1);transform: scaleX(-1);">

<img src="/banner08CRredlogo.png" style="display: block; margin-left: auto; margin-right: auto; width: 50%;">
