packages/docs-next/components/Steps.md, before:

---
title: Steps
---

# Steps

<div class="vp-doc">

> Responsive horizontal process steps


</div>

<div class="vp-example">

## Examples

<example-steps />

</div>
<div class="vp-example">

## Class props

<inspector-steps-viewer />

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Steps component

> Responsive horizontal process steps

```html
<o-steps></o-steps>
```

### Props

| Prop name         | Description                                                                                                                   | Type           | Values                                                                          | Default                                                                                                                                                      |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| animated          | Step navigation is animated                                                                                                   | boolean        | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;animated: true<br>}</code>               |
| ariaNextLabel     | Accessibility next button aria label                                                                                          | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;ariaNextLabel: undefined<br>}</code>     |
| ariaPreviousLabel | Accessibility previous button aria label                                                                                      | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;ariaPreviousLabel: undefined<br>}</code> |
| hasNavigation     | Next and previous buttons below the component. You can use this property if you want to use your own custom navigation items. | boolean        | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                                   |
| iconNext          | Icon to use for navigation button                                                                                             | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;iconNext: "chevron-right"<br>}</code>    |
| iconPack          | Icon pack to use for the navigation                                                                                           | string         | `mdi`, `fa`, `fas and any other custom icon pack`                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;iconPack: undefined<br>}</code>          |
| iconPrev          | Icon to use for navigation button                                                                                             | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;iconPrev: "chevron-left"<br>}</code>     |
| labelPosition     | Position of the marker label                                                                                                  | string         | `bottom`, `right`, `left`                                                       | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;labelPosition: "bottom"<br>}</code>      |
| mobileBreakpoint  | Mobile breakpoint as max-width value                                                                                          | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;mobileBreakpoint: undefined<br>}</code>  |
| position          | Position of the tab                                                                                                           | string         | `left`, `centered`, `right`                                                     |                                                                                                                                                              |
| rounded           | Rounded step markers                                                                                                          | boolean        | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                                   |
| size              | Tab size                                                                                                                      | string         | `small`, `medium`, `large`                                                      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;size: undefined<br>}</code>              |
| v-model           |                                                                                                                               | string\|number | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                              |
| variant           | Color of the control                                                                                                          | string         | `primary`, `info`, `success`, `warning`, `danger`, `and any other custom color` | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;variant: undefined<br>}</code>           |
| vertical          | Show tab in vertical layout                                                                                                   | boolean        | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                                  |

### Events

| Event name        | Properties                                                                                    | Description                     |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| update:modelValue | **value** `string \| number` - updated modelValue prop                                        | modelValue prop two-way binding |
| change            | **value** `string \| number` - new tab value<br/>**value** `string \| number` - old tab value | on tab change event             |

### Slots

| Name       | Description              | Bindings                                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| default    | Place step items here    |                                                                                                                                                             |
| navigation | Override step navigation | **previous** `{disabled: boolean, action: (): void }` - previous button configs<br/>**next** `{disabled: boolean, action: (): void }` - next button configs |

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## StepItem component

```html
<o-step-item></o-step-item>
```

### Props

| Prop name | Description                                                                                                                        | Type             | Values | Default                                                                                                                                             |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ariaRole  | Role attribute to be passed to the div wrapper for better accessibility                                                            | string           | -      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;ariaRole: "tab"<br>}</code>     |
| clickable | Item can be used directly to navigate.<br/>If undefined, previous steps are clickable while the others are not                     | boolean          | -      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| icon      | Icon on the left                                                                                                                   | string           | -      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;icon: undefined<br>}</code>     |
| iconPack  | Icon pack                                                                                                                          | string           | -      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;iconPack: undefined<br>}</code> |
| label     | Item label                                                                                                                         | string           | -      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| step      | Step marker content (when there is no icon)                                                                                        | string\|number   | -      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| tag       | Tabs item tag name                                                                                                                 | DynamicComponent | -      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;itemTag: "button"<br>}</code>   |
| value     | Item value (it will be used as v-model of wrapper component)                                                                       | string\|number   | -      | Default function (see source code)                                                                                                                  |
| variant   | Default style for the step.<br/>This will override parent type.<br/>Could be used to set a completed step to "success" for example | string           | -      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| visible   | Show/hide item                                                                                                                     | boolean          | -      | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                          |

### Events

| Event name | Properties | Description                  |
| ---------- | ---------- | ---------------------------- |
| activate   |            | on tab item activate event   |
| deactivate |            | on tab item deactivate event |

### Slots

| Name    | Description       | Bindings |
| ------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| default | Step item content |          |

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

</div>
<div class="vp-doc">

## Sass variables

<div class="theme-orugabase">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga Base](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                       | Default                     |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| $steps-details-background-color     | hsl(0, 0%, 100%)            |
| $steps-details-padding              | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-marker-background            | $grey-light                 |
| $steps-marker-color                 | $primary-invert             |
| $steps-marker-border                | 0.2em solid #fff            |
| $steps-marker-font-weight           | 700                         |
| $steps-marker-rounded-border-radius | $base-rounded-border-radius |
| $steps-color                        | $grey-lighter               |
| $steps-previous-color               | $primary                    |
| $steps-active-color                 | $primary                    |
| $steps-divider-height               | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-vertical-padding             | 1em 0                       |
| $steps-item-line-height             | $base-line-height           |
| $steps-link-color                   | hsl(0, 0%, 29%)             |
| $steps-content-padding              | 1rem                        |
| $steps-font-size                    | $base-font-size             |
| $steps-details-title-font-weight    | 600                         |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_steps.scss)

</div><div class="theme-orugafull">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga Full](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                       | Default                     |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| $steps-details-background-color     | hsl(0, 0%, 100%)            |
| $steps-details-padding              | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-marker-background            | $grey-light                 |
| $steps-marker-color                 | $primary-invert             |
| $steps-marker-border                | 0.2em solid #fff            |
| $steps-marker-font-weight           | 700                         |
| $steps-marker-rounded-border-radius | $base-rounded-border-radius |
| $steps-color                        | $grey-lighter               |
| $steps-previous-color               | $primary                    |
| $steps-active-color                 | $primary                    |
| $steps-divider-height               | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-vertical-padding             | 1em 0                       |
| $steps-item-line-height             | $base-line-height           |
| $steps-link-color                   | hsl(0, 0%, 29%)             |
| $steps-content-padding              | 1rem                        |
| $steps-font-size                    | $base-font-size             |
| $steps-details-title-font-weight    | 600                         |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_steps.scss)

</div><div class="theme-bulma">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bulma](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bulma)_

<p>The theme does not have any custom variables for this component.</p>
</div><div class="theme-bootstrap">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bootstrap](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap)_

| SASS Variable           | Default                     |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------- |
| $steps-marker-bg        | var(--#{$prefix}gray-light) |
| $steps-marker-border    | var(--#{$prefix}white)      |
| $steps-marker-color     | var(--#{$prefix}white)      |
| $steps-color-active     | var(--#{$prefix}primary)    |
| $steps-title-color      | var(--#{$prefix}dark)       |
| $steps-title-bg         | var(--#{$prefix}white)      |
| $steps-divider-height   | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-content-spacer   | 1rem                        |
| $steps-content-padding  | 1rem                        |
| $steps-vertical-padding | 1em 0                       |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_steps.scss)

</div>

</div>

Commit message:

Added: note for v-model prop of OSteps.

packages/docs-next/components/Steps.md, after:

---
title: Steps
---

# Steps

<div class="vp-doc">

> Responsive horizontal process steps


</div>

<div class="vp-example">

## Examples

<example-steps />

</div>
<div class="vp-example">

## Class props

<inspector-steps-viewer />

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Steps component

> Responsive horizontal process steps

```html
<o-steps></o-steps>
```

### Props

| Prop name         | Description                                                                                                                   | Type           | Values                                                                          | Default                                                                                                                                                      |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| animated          | Step navigation is animated                                                                                                   | boolean        | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;animated: true<br>}</code>               |
| ariaNextLabel     | Accessibility next button aria label                                                                                          | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;ariaNextLabel: undefined<br>}</code>     |
| ariaPreviousLabel | Accessibility previous button aria label                                                                                      | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;ariaPreviousLabel: undefined<br>}</code> |
| hasNavigation     | Next and previous buttons below the component. You can use this property if you want to use your own custom navigation items. | boolean        | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                                   |
| iconNext          | Icon to use for navigation button                                                                                             | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;iconNext: "chevron-right"<br>}</code>    |
| iconPack          | Icon pack to use for the navigation                                                                                           | string         | `mdi`, `fa`, `fas and any other custom icon pack`                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;iconPack: undefined<br>}</code>          |
| iconPrev          | Icon to use for navigation button                                                                                             | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;iconPrev: "chevron-left"<br>}</code>     |
| labelPosition     | Position of the marker label                                                                                                  | string         | `bottom`, `right`, `left`                                                       | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;labelPosition: "bottom"<br>}</code>      |
| mobileBreakpoint  | Mobile breakpoint as max-width value                                                                                          | string         | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;mobileBreakpoint: undefined<br>}</code>  |
| position          | Position of the tab                                                                                                           | string         | `left`, `centered`, `right`                                                     |                                                                                                                                                              |
| rounded           | Rounded step markers                                                                                                          | boolean        | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                                   |
| size              | Tab size                                                                                                                      | string         | `small`, `medium`, `large`                                                      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;size: undefined<br>}</code>              |
| v-model           | (Note that `value` for StepItem should be the same type as this.)                                                             | string\|number | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                              |
| variant           | Color of the control                                                                                                          | string         | `primary`, `info`, `success`, `warning`, `danger`, `and any other custom color` | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;variant: undefined<br>}</code>           |
| vertical          | Show tab in vertical layout                                                                                                   | boolean        | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                                  |

### Events

| Event name        | Properties                                                                                    | Description                     |
| ----------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| update:modelValue | **value** `string \| number` - updated modelValue prop                                        | modelValue prop two-way binding |
| change            | **value** `string \| number` - new tab value<br/>**value** `string \| number` - old tab value | on tab change event             |

### Slots

| Name       | Description              | Bindings                                                                                                                                                    |
| ---------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| default    | Place step items here    |                                                                                                                                                             |
| navigation | Override step navigation | **previous** `{disabled: boolean, action: (): void }` - previous button configs<br/>**next** `{disabled: boolean, action: (): void }` - next button configs |

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## StepItem component

```html
<o-step-item></o-step-item>
```

### Props

| Prop name | Description                                                                                                                        | Type             | Values | Default                                                                                                                                             |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ariaRole  | Role attribute to be passed to the div wrapper for better accessibility                                                            | string           | -      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;ariaRole: "tab"<br>}</code>     |
| clickable | Item can be used directly to navigate.<br/>If undefined, previous steps are clickable while the others are not                     | boolean          | -      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| icon      | Icon on the left                                                                                                                   | string           | -      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;icon: undefined<br>}</code>     |
| iconPack  | Icon pack                                                                                                                          | string           | -      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;iconPack: undefined<br>}</code> |
| label     | Item label                                                                                                                         | string           | -      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| step      | Step marker content (when there is no icon)                                                                                        | string\|number   | -      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| tag       | Tabs item tag name                                                                                                                 | DynamicComponent | -      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>steps: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;itemTag: "button"<br>}</code>   |
| value     | Item value (it will be used as v-model of wrapper component)                                                                       | string\|number   | -      | Default function (see source code)                                                                                                                  |
| variant   | Default style for the step.<br/>This will override parent type.<br/>Could be used to set a completed step to "success" for example | string           | -      |                                                                                                                                                     |
| visible   | Show/hide item                                                                                                                     | boolean          | -      | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                          |

### Events

| Event name | Properties | Description                  |
| ---------- | ---------- | ---------------------------- |
| activate   |            | on tab item activate event   |
| deactivate |            | on tab item deactivate event |

### Slots

| Name    | Description       | Bindings |
| ------- | ----------------- | -------- |
| default | Step item content |          |

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

</div>
<div class="vp-doc">

## Sass variables

<div class="theme-orugabase">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga Base](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                       | Default                     |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| $steps-details-background-color     | hsl(0, 0%, 100%)            |
| $steps-details-padding              | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-marker-background            | $grey-light                 |
| $steps-marker-color                 | $primary-invert             |
| $steps-marker-border                | 0.2em solid #fff            |
| $steps-marker-font-weight           | 700                         |
| $steps-marker-rounded-border-radius | $base-rounded-border-radius |
| $steps-color                        | $grey-lighter               |
| $steps-previous-color               | $primary                    |
| $steps-active-color                 | $primary                    |
| $steps-divider-height               | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-vertical-padding             | 1em 0                       |
| $steps-item-line-height             | $base-line-height           |
| $steps-link-color                   | hsl(0, 0%, 29%)             |
| $steps-content-padding              | 1rem                        |
| $steps-font-size                    | $base-font-size             |
| $steps-details-title-font-weight    | 600                         |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_steps.scss)

</div><div class="theme-orugafull">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga Full](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                       | Default                     |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| $steps-details-background-color     | hsl(0, 0%, 100%)            |
| $steps-details-padding              | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-marker-background            | $grey-light                 |
| $steps-marker-color                 | $primary-invert             |
| $steps-marker-border                | 0.2em solid #fff            |
| $steps-marker-font-weight           | 700                         |
| $steps-marker-rounded-border-radius | $base-rounded-border-radius |
| $steps-color                        | $grey-lighter               |
| $steps-previous-color               | $primary                    |
| $steps-active-color                 | $primary                    |
| $steps-divider-height               | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-vertical-padding             | 1em 0                       |
| $steps-item-line-height             | $base-line-height           |
| $steps-link-color                   | hsl(0, 0%, 29%)             |
| $steps-content-padding              | 1rem                        |
| $steps-font-size                    | $base-font-size             |
| $steps-details-title-font-weight    | 600                         |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_steps.scss)

</div><div class="theme-bulma">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bulma](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bulma)_

<p>The theme does not have any custom variables for this component.</p>
</div><div class="theme-bootstrap">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bootstrap](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap)_

| SASS Variable           | Default                     |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------- |
| $steps-marker-bg        | var(--#{$prefix}gray-light) |
| $steps-marker-border    | var(--#{$prefix}white)      |
| $steps-marker-color     | var(--#{$prefix}white)      |
| $steps-color-active     | var(--#{$prefix}primary)    |
| $steps-title-color      | var(--#{$prefix}dark)       |
| $steps-title-bg         | var(--#{$prefix}white)      |
| $steps-divider-height   | 0.2em                       |
| $steps-content-spacer   | 1rem                        |
| $steps-content-padding  | 1rem                        |
| $steps-vertical-padding | 1em 0                       |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_steps.scss)

</div>

</div>
