packages/docs-next/components/Switch.md, before:

---
title: Switch
---

# Switch

<div class="vp-doc">

> Switch between two opposing states

<Carbon />
</div>

<div class="vp-example">

## Examples

<example-switch />

</div>
<div class="vp-example">

## Class props

<inspector-switch-viewer />

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Switch component

> Switch between two opposing states

```html
<o-switch></o-switch>
```

### Props

| Prop name          | Description                                                                         | Type                    | Values                                                                          | Default                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ariaLabelledby     | Accessibility label to establish relationship between the switch and control label' | string                  | -                                                                               | Default function (see source code)                                                                                                                         |
| autocomplete       | Same as native autocomplete options to use in HTML5 validation                      | string                  | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>switch: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;autocomplete: "off"<br>}</code>       |
| disabled           | Same as native disabled                                                             | boolean                 | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                                |
| falseValue         | Overrides the returned value when it's not checked                                  | string\|number\|boolean | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                                |
| label              | Input label, unnecessary when default slot is used                                  | string                  | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                            |
| name               | Name attribute on native checkbox                                                   | string                  | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                            |
| nativeValue        | Same as native value                                                                | string\|number\|boolean | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                            |
| passiveVariant     | Color of the switch when is passive, optional                                       | string                  | `primary`, `info`, `success`, `warning`, `danger`, `and any other custom color` | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>switch: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;passiveVariant: undefined<br>}</code> |
| position           | Label position                                                                      | string                  | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>"right"</code>                                                                                              |
| required           | Same as native required                                                             | boolean                 | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                                |
| rounded            | Rounded style                                                                       | boolean                 | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                                 |
| size               | Size of the control                                                                 | string                  | `small`, `medium`, `large`                                                      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>switch: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;size: undefined<br>}</code>           |
| trueValue          | Overrides the returned value when it's checked                                      | string\|number\|boolean | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                                 |
| useHtml5Validation | Enable html 5 native validation                                                     | boolean                 | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>{<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;useHtml5Validation: true<br>}</code>          |
| v-model            |                                                                                     | string\|number\|boolean | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                            |
| variant            | Color of the control, optional                                                      | string                  | `primary`, `info`, `success`, `warning`, `danger`, `and any other custom color` | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>switch: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;variant: undefined<br>}</code>        |

### Events

| Event name        | Properties                                                        | Description                     |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| update:modelValue | **value** `string \| number \| boolean` - updated modelValue prop | modelValue prop two-way binding |
| focus             | **event** `Event` - native event                                  | on input focus event            |
| blur              | **event** `Event` - native event                                  | on input blur event             |
| invalid           | **event** `Event` - native event                                  | on input invalid event          |

### Slots

| Name    | Description | Bindings |
| ------- | ----------- | -------- |
| default |             |          |

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Sass variables

<div class="theme-orugabase">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga Base](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                   | Default                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| $switch-active-background-color | $primary                                                                                         |
| $switch-action-background       | #f5f5f5                                                                                          |
| $switch-background              | $grey-light                                                                                      |
| $switch-border-radius           | $base-border-radius                                                                              |
| $switch-box-shadow              | 0 3px 1px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05), 0 2px 2px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1), 0 3px 3px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05) |
| $switch-disabled-opacity        | $base-disabled-opacity                                                                           |
| $switch-margin-label            | 0.5em                                                                                            |
| $switch-padding                 | 0.2em                                                                                            |
| $switch-rounded-border-radius   | $base-rounded-border-radius                                                                      |
| $switch-width                   | 2.75 \* 1em                                                                                      |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_switch.scss)

</div><div class="theme-orugafull">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga Full](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                   | Default                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| $switch-active-background-color | $primary                                                                                         |
| $switch-action-background       | #f5f5f5                                                                                          |
| $switch-background              | $grey-light                                                                                      |
| $switch-border-radius           | $base-border-radius                                                                              |
| $switch-box-shadow              | 0 3px 1px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05), 0 2px 2px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1), 0 3px 3px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05) |
| $switch-disabled-opacity        | $base-disabled-opacity                                                                           |
| $switch-margin-label            | 0.5em                                                                                            |
| $switch-padding                 | 0.2em                                                                                            |
| $switch-rounded-border-radius   | $base-rounded-border-radius                                                                      |
| $switch-width                   | 2.75 \* 1em                                                                                      |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_switch.scss)

</div><div class="theme-bulma">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bulma](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bulma)_

<p>The theme does not have any custom variables for this component.</p>
</div><div class="theme-bootstrap">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bootstrap](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap)_

| SASS Variable  | Default |
| -------------- | ------- |
| $switch-spacer | 0.5rem  |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_switch.scss)

</div>

</div>

Commit message:

refactor: cleanup (#651)
* refactor: code cleanup

* refactor: remove unused files

* docs: update descriptions

* docs: add slot descriptions

* update(button): add role prop

* fix(taginput): keyboard navigation

packages/docs-next/components/Switch.md, after:

---
title: Switch
---

# Switch

<div class="vp-doc">

> Switch between two opposing states

<Carbon />
</div>

<div class="vp-example">

## Examples

<example-switch />

</div>
<div class="vp-example">

## Class props

<inspector-switch-viewer />

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Switch component

> Switch between two opposing states

```html
<o-switch></o-switch>
```

### Props

| Prop name          | Description                                                                         | Type                    | Values                                                                          | Default                                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ariaLabelledby     | Accessibility label to establish relationship between the switch and control label' | string                  | -                                                                               | Default function (see source code)                                                                                                                         |
| autocomplete       | Same as native autocomplete options to use in HTML5 validation                      | string                  | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>switch: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;autocomplete: "off"<br>}</code>       |
| disabled           | Same as native disabled                                                             | boolean                 | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                                |
| falseValue         | Overrides the returned value when it's not checked                                  | string\|number\|boolean | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                                |
| label              | Input label, unnecessary when default slot is used                                  | string                  | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                            |
| name               | Name attribute on native checkbox                                                   | string                  | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                            |
| nativeValue        | Same as native value                                                                | string\|number\|boolean | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                            |
| passiveVariant     | Color of the switch when is passive, optional                                       | string                  | `primary`, `info`, `success`, `warning`, `danger`, `and any other custom color` | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>switch: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;passiveVariant: undefined<br>}</code> |
| position           | Label position                                                                      | string                  | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>"right"</code>                                                                                              |
| required           | Same as native required                                                             | boolean                 | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>false</code>                                                                                                |
| rounded            | Rounded style                                                                       | boolean                 | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                                 |
| size               | Size of the control                                                                 | string                  | `small`, `medium`, `large`                                                      | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>switch: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;size: undefined<br>}</code>           |
| trueValue          | Overrides the returned value when it's checked                                      | string\|number\|boolean | -                                                                               | <code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>true</code>                                                                                                 |
| useHtml5Validation | Enable html 5 native validation                                                     | boolean                 | -                                                                               | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>{<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;useHtml5Validation: true<br>}</code>          |
| v-model            |                                                                                     | string\|number\|boolean | -                                                                               |                                                                                                                                                            |
| variant            | Color of the control, optional                                                      | string                  | `primary`, `info`, `success`, `warning`, `danger`, `and any other custom color` | <div><small>From <b>config</b>:</small></div><code style='white-space: nowrap; padding: 0;'>switch: {<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;variant: undefined<br>}</code>        |

### Events

| Event name        | Properties                                                        | Description                     |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| update:modelValue | **value** `string \| number \| boolean` - updated modelValue prop | modelValue prop two-way binding |
| focus             | **event** `Event` - native event                                  | on input focus event            |
| blur              | **event** `Event` - native event                                  | on input blur event             |
| invalid           | **event** `Event` - native event                                  | on input invalid event          |

### Slots

| Name    | Description                               | Bindings |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------- |
| default | Override the label, default is label prop |          |

</div>

<div class="vp-doc">

## Sass variables

<div class="theme-orugabase">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga Base](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                   | Default                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| $switch-active-background-color | $primary                                                                                         |
| $switch-action-background       | #f5f5f5                                                                                          |
| $switch-background              | $grey-light                                                                                      |
| $switch-border-radius           | $base-border-radius                                                                              |
| $switch-box-shadow              | 0 3px 1px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05), 0 2px 2px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1), 0 3px 3px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05) |
| $switch-disabled-opacity        | $base-disabled-opacity                                                                           |
| $switch-margin-label            | 0.5em                                                                                            |
| $switch-padding                 | 0.2em                                                                                            |
| $switch-rounded-border-radius   | $base-rounded-border-radius                                                                      |
| $switch-width                   | 2.75 \* 1em                                                                                      |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_switch.scss)

</div><div class="theme-orugafull">

> Current theme ➜ _[Oruga Full](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga)_

| SASS Variable                   | Default                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| $switch-active-background-color | $primary                                                                                         |
| $switch-action-background       | #f5f5f5                                                                                          |
| $switch-background              | $grey-light                                                                                      |
| $switch-border-radius           | $base-border-radius                                                                              |
| $switch-box-shadow              | 0 3px 1px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05), 0 2px 2px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1), 0 3px 3px 0 rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.05) |
| $switch-disabled-opacity        | $base-disabled-opacity                                                                           |
| $switch-margin-label            | 0.5em                                                                                            |
| $switch-padding                 | 0.2em                                                                                            |
| $switch-rounded-border-radius   | $base-rounded-border-radius                                                                      |
| $switch-width                   | 2.75 \* 1em                                                                                      |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-oruga/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_switch.scss)

</div><div class="theme-bulma">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bulma](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bulma)_

<p>The theme does not have any custom variables for this component.</p>
</div><div class="theme-bootstrap">

> Current theme ➜ _[Bootstrap](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap)_

| SASS Variable  | Default |
| -------------- | ------- |
| $switch-spacer | 0.5rem  |

See ➜ 📄 [Full scss file](https://github.com/oruga-ui/theme-bootstrap/tree/main/src/assets/scss/components/_switch.scss)

</div>

</div>
